Added site customization behaviors (#497)
kitconcept/volto-light-theme: docs/conceptual-guides/site-customization.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Customization behavior in Volto Light Theme"
    "property=og:description": "Customization behavior in Volto Light Theme"
    "property=og:title": "Customization behavior in Volto Light Theme"
    "keywords": "Plone, customization, behavior, Volto Light Theme"
---

# Site customization

VLT supports site customization via the add-on `kitconcept.voltolighttheme`.

> This add-on has a behavior that can be applied to the Plone site root or to any object that implements the `INavigationRoot` interface, such as the language root folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This add-on has behaviors that can be applied to the Plone site root or to any object that implements the `INavigationRoot` interface, such as the language root folder.
```

Reviewer: As far as I know, they can be applied anywhere; it doesn't have to be an INavigationRoot now that we use the `@inherit` service to get the data.

Author: I also thought about it, but it's easier to explain it in the Site/Subsite use case terms :) 
I will try to come up with better explanation without loosing focus on the main use case.

> This behavior provide a set of fields that allow you to customize the properties and the look and feel of the site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These behaviors provide fields that allow you to customize the properties and the look and feel of the site.
```

````{important}

> A site is content that exist under a parent object that implements `INavigationRoot`, this could be the root Plone site itself, a language root folder (LRF) (eg. `/en` or `/ca`), or an imaginary "subsite" content type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A site is content that exists under a parent object that implements `INavigationRoot`.
This could be the root Plone site itself, a language root folder (LRF) such as `/en` or `/ca`, or a virtual "subsite" content type.
```

> Site can be __nested__ so the settings that are applied are always the ones from the nearest site ancestor to the current content object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sites can be _nested_, so the settings that are applied are always the ones from the nearest site ancestor to the current content object.
```

For example, given this structure:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```console
````

Plone site (/)

> ├─ LRF (/en)
>    ├─ Document (/en/document1)
>    ├─ Subsite (/en/subsite)
>       ├─ Document (/en/subsite/document2)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
└── LRF (/en)
    ├── Document (/en/document1)
    └── Subsite (/en/subsite)
        └── Document (/en/subsite/document2)
```

```

> If `/en` has a custom logo, `/en/document1` will show this logo, because it's the nearest site ancestor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `/en` has a custom logo, then `/en/document1` will inherit and show the logo from `/en` because it's `/en/document1`'s nearest site ancestor.
```

> If the subsite `/en/subsite` has set another logo, `/en/subsite/document2` will show it instead of the one set in `/en`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Similarly, if the subsite `/en/subsite` has set a different logo, then `/en/subsite/document2` will show the logo from `/en/subsite` instead of the one set in `/en`.
```

> This allows to create several levels of customizations inside your Plone site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This lets you create several levels of customizations inside your Plone site.
```

````

> ## Adding the behaviors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Add behaviors
```

The behaviors are named:

> - voltolighttheme.header
> - voltolighttheme.theme
> - voltolighttheme.footer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `voltolighttheme.header`
-   `voltolighttheme.theme`
-   `voltolighttheme.footer`
```

These behaviors enable fields for customizing the site in the assigned content type.
You should assign them to the content type that you want to customize.

> If you want to add them to a Plone site add this to {file}`<your_backend_addon>/profiles/default/types/Plone_Site.xml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add them to a Plone site, add the following snippet to {file}`<your_backend_addon>/profiles/default/types/Plone_Site.xml`.
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<object xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n"
        meta_type="Dexterity FTI"
        name="Plone Site"
        i18n:domain="plone"
>
  <property name="behaviors"
            purge="false"
  >
    <element value="voltolighttheme.header" />
    <element value="voltolighttheme.theme" />
    <element value="voltolighttheme.footer" />
  </property>
</object>
```

> in case you want to add them at the very top of your content type form, you will have to redefine all the current behaviors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you want to add them at the very top of your content type form, you will have to redefine all the current behaviors:
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<object xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n"
        meta_type="Dexterity FTI"
        name="Plone Site"
        i18n:domain="plone"
>
  <property name="behaviors"
            purge="true"
  >
    <element value="voltolighttheme.header" />
    <element value="voltolighttheme.theme" />
    <element value="voltolighttheme.footer" />
    <element value="plone.dublincore" />
    <element value="plone.relateditems" />
    <element value="plone.locking" />
    <element value="plone.allowdiscussion" />
    <element value="plone.excludefromnavigation" />
    <element value="plone.tableofcontents" />
    <element value="volto.blocks" />
  </property>
</object>
```

```{note}

> This is shown as a reference, and will remove any other behavior that you might have customized in your content type (Plone Site) in this case, because the `purge="true"` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is shown as a reference, and will remove any other behavior that you might have customized in your content type (Plone Site) in this case, because of the `purge="true"` directive.
```

> You have to option of doing it programatically or via ZMI (portal_types/Plone Site) in case you want to reorder them manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have the option of doing it either programmatically or via ZMI (`portal_types/Plone Site`) in case you want to reorder them manually.
```

```

## Header

> You can customize the following aspects of the header your site.

Reviewer: Not a blocker, but the docs would be more helpful if they included screenshots to make it clear which part of the UI is affected.

Author: @davisagli Let's talk about this and the top question later.

> You can customize the following aspects of the header your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize the following aspects of the header in your site.
```

### Site logo

You can define the site logo for the main site as well as the subsites provided by content types that implement the `INavigationRoot` interface.

> ### Complementary logo

Reviewer 2: Complementary or Secondary? This might be dependent on the client's management style, whether it is hierarchical or collaborative. If the former, I would go with "secondary", and the latter as "complementary".

Author: We evaluated both already, and settled in `complementary`.

> You can define a complementary logo in the header, for convenience purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a complementary logo in the header.
```

> This logo shows up on the right-most side of the header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a second logo shown on the right-most side of the header.
```

### Intranet flag

If you use the intranet header (`config.settings.intranetHeader`), the intranet flag is the text in the grey pill at the top of the header.

### Actions

You can define the actions located at the top right of the header.
These are links to other pages, each of which is defined by the fields for a title, a target URL, and a boolean for whether or not to open the link in a new tab.

## Theming

You can customize the following aspects of the theming of your site, such as colors for the look and feel of your site.

### Navigation text color

You can customize the navigation text color in this widget.

### Fat menu and breadcrumbs text color

The fat menu is the menu that unfolds when you click on any item in the site section navigation.
You can customize the fat menu text color in this widget.
It also applies to the breadcrumbs text color.

### Fat menu background color

You can customize the fat menu background color in this widget.

### Footer font color

You can customize the footer font color in this widget.

### Footer background color

You can customize the footer background color in this widget.

## Footer

> You can customize the following aspects of the footer your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize the following aspects of the footer in your site.
```
